---
title: Sometimes A Little Knowledge Can Be A Bad Thing
author: Ryan
layout: post
date: 2007-03-15T15:48:07+00:00
url: /2007/03/15/sometimes-a-little-knowledge-can-be-a-bad-thing/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 235480426
tags:
  - Europe
  - Spanish

---
Tomorrow is the last day of class for me. I suppose now is a good time to
reflect back on what I've learned over the past 10 weeks. Frankly, I am rather
disappointed at my current level of Spanish. Granted, I had no illusions of
being anywhere close to fluency at the end of my time here but honestly, I
think it would take me a lot longer to get to say, Borat's level of English.

Listening continues to be a huge struggle for me (of course I have this problem
in English too so this shouldn't have been too surprising). Part of this is
simply a lack of vocabulary which I hope will continue to improve over time.
Coping with the speed of the spoken language and picking out individual words
is also a problem. But more fundamentally, I think my main problem is that I
can only think in English. It takes far too long to translate a sentence in my
head. If someone is speaking at a normal clip, they have already moved ahead 4
or 5 sentences by the time I have muddled my way through the first one. And
jeez, I won't even go into how pathetic my speaking is. The most frustrating
part for me is the up and down nature of it. Sometimes I can actually
understand a fair bit and string together a coherent response and feel like I'm
making progress and at other times I can't understand a damn thing even though
its a really simple sentence. I find that things improve slightly if I can
anticipate what the person is going to say which is possible in certain limited
social contexts. For example, ordering food in a restaurant or asking for
directions.

On the other hand, I have to remind myself that I came here without knowing
some seriously basic vocabulary like parts of the body, clothing, food, and
some semi-important grammatical stuff like, oh, past and future tenses. So I
guess, yes, I have learned a lot but with this tiny bit of knowledge I now
realize just how much farther I have to go.

Oh, an amusing side story. At lunch yesterday the menu described a plate with
garbanzo beans and a sauce that sounded tasty along with "callo". I had no idea
what that word was but feeling adventurous, decided to order it anyway. After
receiving the dish, I realized that callo = tripe. I actually like the stuff in
small pieces in pho but this was a plate filled with huge gelatinous chunks of
it. It was a tad much cow stomach lining for me but I scarfed down the whole
thing just to prove to myself that yes, I could indeed rock the house at the
eating portion of Fear Factor.