---
title: Donde esta mi cartera?
author: Ryan
layout: post
date: 2007-03-02T13:05:53+00:00
url: /2007/03/02/donde-esta-mi-cartera/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 235480401
tags:
  - Europe
  - Spanish

---
I will preface this by saying that I absolutely adore Barcelona... (wait for
it)... But, in the two weeks that I have been here, there have been not one but
two attempts at picking my pocket in the metro. I have been warned repeatedly
about this by various guidebooks and by the teachers in Tenerife and Granada.
In fact, one of the teachers told me that Barcelona is especially peligrosa for
asians because they usually carry around expensive cameras and other fancy
gadgetry. Because I have the requisite ojos, I use a money belt with my
passport and credit cards if I have to carry them around and have nothing in my
wallet except for 20 euro or so.

Anyway, as I stepped on the metro one day two older ladies got on and one
positioned herself in front of me and the other behind. The one in front asked
me where Plaza Catalunya was. I said that we were in Plaza Catalunya and they
turned around to leave. The whole situation seemed a little strange so I felt
my back pocket and realized that my wallet was gone! I managed to grab the one
that was standing behind me before they stepped off the metro and while I was
choosing between beating her or coming up with a sentence in Spanish expressing
my belief that she had stolen my wallet (Thought process: "Hrm, what is the
verb? Ah, robar. To rob, steal. Now, how do I conjugate it correctly? Ah shit,
past tense. robaste or robabas? It's a regular verb right? Damn those confusing
Indefinido and Imperfect tenses. I think its Indefinido since it was an action
not a description of the context of the situation. Or perhaps Preterito
Perfecto is more appropriate here since the action occurred near the present
time: has robado. Oh, maybe I should use vosotros instead of tu since there are
two of them."). Anyway, I'm guess she saw the gears turning slowly and she
dropped my wallet on the ground and they both scurried off the train as I
picked it up. Lessons learned: Always keep your wallet in your front pocket and
continue practicing the past tenses.

For the 2nd attempt, I was going up the escalator and had nearly reached the
top when the person in front of me dropped his cigarettes and stopped to pick
them up. Naturally, this caused a bit of a pile up and the person behind me
bumped into me. Being a little more savvy this time, my hands immediately went
to my pockets when and I swear that I felt the guy behind me try to pick my
pocket.

There are some pros here, I tell ya. Pero, no pasa nada. It's all part of the
experience.