---
title: Gastronomy
author: Ryan
layout: post
date: 2007-03-24T16:26:10+00:00
url: /2007/03/24/gastronomy/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 235480433
tags:
  - Europe

---
While in Spain I mostly ate with my host families and only went out to have an
expensive meal a few times. And really, I was fine with this because I'm far
from being a foodie. Hand me a chorizo bocadillo and a ca√±a and I'm a happy
camper. But my how things have changed in Italy mostly because I've always had
a weakness for Italian food and partly because I ended up spending less in
Spain than I thought I would. I haven't bothered calculating it yet but I'm
almost positive that I am spending more on food per day then for the room. And
oh wow, the food. After a rather inauspicious beginning in Rome with a rather
meh but pricey 30 euro lunch, we have had some vastly improved meals in
Tuscany. A couple of dishes bear note as I have never had them before. There
was the fantastic lunch in Siena with a plate of pici, which is a thick almost
udon-like spaghetti noodle, with this amazing..um, brownish meaty sauce (yes
I'm sorry, the description sucks. No idea what was in it). And there was a bowl
of ribollita in a cafeteria which is some sort of hearty winter stew made with
bread and vegetables. I'm haven't figured out how the locals can chow down both
the primi and secondi plates so easily because I'm usually near the bursting
point after finishing up.

Oh, and the gelato! I thought the pistachio at the place down the street from
my apartment in the States was good but this stuff is exactly 26.43 times
better. And finally, since I like to wrap things up on a negative note, my only
complaint is the pizza. I'd take a slice of Round Table over the stuff I've had
here any day (see? Not a foodie).