---
title: Itâ€™s The End Of The World As We Know It
author: Ryan
layout: post
date: 2007-05-21T00:31:23+00:00
url: /2007/05/20/its-the-end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 235480453
tags:
  - Uncategorized

---
I went to see [28 Weeks Later][1] and I give it two dismembered thumbs up. Not
really a big fan of the disorienting strobe light shaky-cam effect they used
since it made it a little tough to make out some of the carnage. But still,
zombie flicks are kind of like pizza in that even a bad zombie movie is still
pretty good.

In fact, [my love of boardwalks][2] is perhaps only matched by my love of
shambling pustule filled living dead chowing down on human flesh. Well ok, so
that's not entirely true. I've pondered this quite a bit and I think the real
reason is that zombie flicks form a subgenre of my true favorite: The End Of
The World scenario. The scenes that stick with me longest are not the ones
involving chainsaws, shotguns, helicopter blades, or disembowelment but rather
those eerie and unsettling shots where the protagonist walks through a deserted
metropolitan area with cars abandoned in the middle of the road and rotting
food still on the tables at restaurants. I can still remember that great scene
in 28 Days Later where Cillian Murphy walks over a completely deserted Tower
Bridge in broad daylight (not quite sure how they managed to shoot that).
There's also the ever-popular grocery shopping scene where the produce is of
course long rotted but there is still plenty of junk food and other assorted
canned goods for the motley band of survivors to choose from.

In particular, I like works that focus on the initial catastrophic event and
then the immediate aftermath. There is another type of post-apocalyptic story
that takes place quite a bit after the initial Day 0 event (the Mad Max movies
for example) but I don't like these quite as much. The major appeal of the
former is that the recognizable remnants of modern civilization are still there
but clearly the new Dark Ages are on their way soon. What does one do once
those canned goods run out anyway? And no electricity ever again, oy. Then
there is the emergence of true human nature in the absence of society. Are
people inherently good or evil?

Disclaimer: While I enjoy reading books or watching movies about such a
scenario, I certainly do not wish for something like this to happen in real
life. In a world where only the strong survive, I am most definitely not going
to fall into that camp.

 [1]: http://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/28_weeks_later/
 [2]: {{< relref "post/2006-11-02-santa-cruz-ca.md" >}}