---
title: Lost in the App Store
author: Ryan
layout: post
date: 2011-06-06T02:56:13+00:00
url: /2011/06/05/lost-in-the-app-store/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 323724924
tags:
  - Android
  - iOS
  - Software

---
Well, that was certainly quicker than expected.

The good news is that [Recipe Distiller for iPhone][1] only took 4 days to
approve. That was a lot faster than I had expected although the app is really
quite simple and I can't imagine that it would take long to review. A testament
to the minimalist design, that. ðŸ™‚

The bad news? The sobering reality that trying to sell something is
exponentially harder than giving it away for free. In my head I didn't think it
was possible to gain much traction without doing any marketing but I have to
confess that there was some small part of me that was secretly hoping that
millions of cooks would happen to check the App Store on the day of release and
be compelled to buy a copy. Not too surprisingly, things didn't quite work out
that way and sales are dismal to non-existant after Week 1. Maybe more
non-existant than dismal if I'm being honest.

So, needless to say, I won't be quitting the day job anytime soon. I had no
dreams of making much of a profit, this entire project has mostly been a
learning exercise after all, but I was hoping to recoup the costs of the $99
developer's license.

The main issue to solve is a non-technical one (gulp) which is how to
effectively promote one's app and prevent it from drowning amongst the vast sea
of apps that are added to the store every day. The [Android version][2] is free
and I was quite surprised to build up a small user base on that platform with
no advertising done at all. There are a handful of recipes being saved by users
every day and that is some nice validation that others also see value in the
product. On the iPhone side of things however, it has just been the sound of
crickets. Part of this is due to the slightly higher than normal price point
($1.99, which is infinitely more than free I realize) but I also think it is a
case of being a small fish in a big pond.

I did a little bit of searching around and found a couple of other
applications, [Paprika][3] and [Pepperplate][4] that essentially do the same
thing except with a much more professional looking UI and lots of fancy meal
planning and search features. Both appear however to require specialized
scrapers for every recipe site they want to support.

And therein lies one of the main differentiating features of [Recipe
Distiller][5].

I've submitted some review requests to a few app review sites but I have no
idea what the acceptance rate is for them nor who their main audience is. I
think I will have more success if I can give away a few copies to recipe
blogging community and try to get more visibility with them. These writers and
their readership don't just build their recipe collections from the top cooking
sites but instead peruse recipes farther down the long tail. These sites are
not going to be supported by the other apps and I'm hoping that Recipe
Distiller's automated ingredient extraction performs well enough to be a step
up from the manual data entry required by the others.

Finally, if anybody out there with an iPhone wants to try it out for free,
lemme know and I'll send you a promo code.

 [1]: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/recipe-distiller-for-iphone/id439824573?mt=8
 [2]: https://market.android.com/details?id=com.recipedistiller
 [3]: http://www.paprikaapp.com/
 [4]: http://www.pepperplate.com/
 [5]: http://recipedistiller.com